Add blog post on Java Records (#904)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-09-24-java-records.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Java Records: A WebFlux and Spring Data Example"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [java]
description: "Java Records support in Spring WebFlux Microservices and Spring Data MongoDB Access"
tags: [java-records, java, api, mongodb, rest, microservices]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:

> type: conversion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-records-example
```

This is a new feature we added, so the GitHub icon goes directly to the tutorial's repo. That way, you don't have to scroll down to the bottom to find it. We also figure that people can figure out the author's GitHub profile URL when looking at the repo.

---

> When defining classes for a simple aggregation of values, developers had to write constructors, accessors, `equals()`, `hashCode()` and `toString()`, an error-prone ceremony that has low value and deviates the focus from modeling immutable data. With the motivation of simplifying the writing of data carrier classes, Java Records were introduced as a first preview in JDK 14. The second preview came in JDK 15 and the finalized feature came in JDK 16. A summary of the history is available in the [JDK Enhancement Proposal JEP 395](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/395). While code generators can be used to reduce boilerplate code, the goals of the `record` proposals rather focus on its semantics. In this post let's explore Java Records features and advantages, and apply them for building a REST API and querying a Database.

Reviewer: Can you please break this up into two paragraphs?

Author: Done

{% img blog/java-records/openjdk-logo.png alt:"OpenJDK Logo" width:"300" %}{: .center-image }

**Prerequisites**:

- [HTTPie](https://httpie.io/)

> - [Java 14+](https://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html)

Reviewer: Our first post that requires a version greater than Java 11! 🥳

- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

> # The Record Keyword

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The `record` Keyword
```

The `record` is a new type of declaration, a restricted form of class that acts as a transparent carrier for immutable data. So let's start the exploration by defining a simple data type `EndOfGame` as a `record`:

```java
import java.time.LocalDate;
import java.time.LocalTime;

public record EndOfGame(String id, LocalDate date,  LocalTime timeOfDay, String mentalState,
                        Integer damageTaken, Integer damageToPlayers, Integer damageToStructures) {
}
```
As you can see in the example above, the `record` has a name, `EndOfGame` in the example above. What looks like a constructor signature is the _state description_ or _header_ declaring the _components_ of the `record`.

The following members are acquired automatically with the declaration:

- A private final field and a public read accessor for each component of the state description
- A public _canonical_ constructor with the same signature as the state description, which initializes each field from the corresponding argument
- Implementation of `equals()`, `hashCode()` and `toString()`

> The code fragments from `EndOfGameTest` class below verify the automatic members are indeed available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code fragments from the `EndOfGameTest` class below verify the automatic members are indeed available.
```

Reviewer: The code fragment below looks kinda funny because it's `private` and doesn't seem to be a normal JUnit test.

Reviewer: Ahh, I see how it's used now. Maybe put the test before the method, or put them all in one code block and use inline comments to explain?

Author: I pasted the whole class and comments are below.

```java
private EndOfGame getTestEndOfGame(){

    return new EndOfGame("1", LocalDate.of(2018, 12, 12),
            LocalTime.of(15, 15), 1,
            "sober", "10%", 1,1,
            10, 10,10);
}
```
The automatic canonical constructor is used for creating a sample `EndOfGame`.

```java
@Test
public void equalsTest(){
    EndOfGame eog1 = getTestEndOfGame();
    EndOfGame eog2 = getTestEndOfGame();

    assertTrue(eog1.equals(eog2));
    assertEquals(eog1, eog2);
    assertEquals(eog1.hashCode(), eog2.hashCode());
}
```

In the test above, `eog1` has the same state than `eog2`, so `eog1.equals(eog2)` is `true`. This also implies both instances have the same `hashCode`.

A `toString()` test can illustrate what the string representation looks like:

```text
EndOfGame[id=1, date=2018-12-12, timeOfDay=15:15, mentalState=sober, damageTaken=10, damageToPlayers=10, damageToStructures=10]
```

Automatic read accessors have the same name and return type as the component. Note there is no `get*` prefix in the read accessor name, the same name as the component:

```java
assertEquals("sober", eog.mentalState());
```

# Java Record Restrictions and Rules

> 

Reviewer: It would be nice to have a sentence or two between headers. Can you provide an intro to the section here?

Author: Done

```java
public EndOfGame {
    Objects.requireNonNull(id);
    Objects.requireNonNull(date);
    Objects.requireNonNull(timeOfDay);
    Objects.requireNonNull(mentalState);
    Objects.requireNonNull(damageTaken);
    Objects.requireNonNull(damageToPlayers);
    Objects.requireNonNull(damageToStructures);
}
```

In the compact form, the parameters are implicit, the private fields cannot be assigned inside the body and are automatically assigned **at the end**. Its purpose is to allow focusing on validation, making defensive copies of mutable values, or some other value processing.

## Serialization, Encoding, Mapping

Record instances can extend `Serializable`, but the serialization and deserialization processes cannot be customized. Serialization and deserialization methods like `writeObject`,  `readObject` can be implemented, but will be ignored.

As `spring-web` module provides Jackson JSON encoders and decoders, and Java Record support was added to Jackson in release 2.12, records can be used for REST API request and response mapping.

> Records cannot be used with JPA/Hiberante. Spring Data modules that do not use the object mapping of the underlying data store (like JPA) do support Record, as persistence construction detection works as with other classes. For Spring Data MongoDB, the general recommendation is to _stick to immutable objects_, because they are straightforward to materialize by calling the constructor. It is also recommended to provide an all-args constructor, allowing to skip property population for optimal performance. Java Record semantics align with these guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records cannot be used with JPA/Hibernate. Spring Data modules that do not use the object mapping of the underlying data store (like JPA) do support Record, as persistence construction detection works as with other classes. For Spring Data MongoDB, the general recommendation is to _stick to immutable objects_, because they are straightforward to materialize by calling the constructor. It is also recommended to provide an all-args constructor, allowing to skip property population for optimal performance. Java Record semantics align with these guidelines.
```

Reviewer: I almost feel like the first sentence in this sentence should be bold, or even standalone. It's a big deal for me, especially because most of the POJOs I create are for JPA.

Author: Made bold and added a brief detail.

While searching for a dataset for this tutorial, I came across a collection of 88 end game statistics of a single player, for a popular game. As the author included the mental state in the data, I decided to use Java Records for building a basic average query and finding out if the performance was significantly different when sober than when high.

Let's jump ahead and build the a secured REST Api using the `EndOfGame` record, Spring Boot, [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/community) and Okta authentication. With the help of [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) create a WebFlux application, from the web UI or with [HTTPie](https://httpie.io/):

```shell
http -d https://start.spring.io/starter.zip type==maven-project \
  language==java \
  bootVersion==2.5.5 \
  baseDir==java-records \
  groupId==com.okta.developer.records \
  artifactId==records-demo \
  name==java-records \
  packageName==com.okta.developer.records \
  javaVersion==17 \
  dependencies==webflux,okta,data-mongodb-reactive
```

**Note**: Although Java Records are available since release 14, the Spring Initializr Web UI only allows to select Java Long Term Support (LTS) releases.

> Extract the maven project, and edit `pom.xml` to add two more required dependencies for this tutorial, [MongoDB Testcontainers Module](https://www.testcontainers.org/modules/databases/mongodb/) for testing database access and `spring-security-test`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extract the Maven project, and edit `pom.xml` to add two more required dependencies for this tutorial, [MongoDB Testcontainers Module](https://www.testcontainers.org/modules/databases/mongodb/) for testing database access and `spring-security-test`:
```

Reviewer: You might want to mention your Spring Security test post. Not sure it should go inline here. It might fit better at the end.

Author: Added at the end.

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.testcontainers</groupId>
    <artifactId>mongodb</artifactId>
    <version>1.15.3</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.security</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-security-test</artifactId>
    <version>5.5.1</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

{% include setup/cli.md type="web" framework="Okta Spring Boot Starter" %}

Rename `application.properties` to `application.yml`, and add the following content:

```yml
okta:
  oauth2:
    issuer: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
    client-secret: {clientSecret}
    client-id: {clientId}

spring:
  data:
    mongodb:
      port: 27017
      database: fortnite

logging:
  level:
    org.springframework.data.mongodb: TRACE
```

> Add the `EndOfGame` record under the package `com.okta.developer.records.domain`. Annotate the `record` with `@Document(collection = "stats")` to let MongoDB map `EndOfGame` to the `stats` collection. As you can see, a record class can be annotated. The class should look like this:

Reviewer: There's a mix of plain ol' "record" here as well as `record`. I'm inclined to think we should treat it like class or interface, and not surround it with backticks. What do you think @bdemers and @havi?

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.domain;

import org.springframework.data.mongodb.core.mapping.Document;

import java.time.LocalDate;
import java.time.LocalTime;
import java.util.Objects;

@Document(collection = "stats")
public record EndOfGame(String id, LocalDate date,  LocalTime timeOfDay,
                        String mentalState, Integer damageTaken,
                        Integer damageToPlayers, Integer damageToStructures) {

    public EndOfGame {
        Objects.requireNonNull(id);
        Objects.requireNonNull(date);
        Objects.requireNonNull(timeOfDay);
        Objects.requireNonNull(mentalState);
        Objects.requireNonNull(damageTaken);
        Objects.requireNonNull(damageToPlayers);
        Objects.requireNonNull(damageToStructures);
    }

}
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove unnecessary blank lines, please.

Author: Done

Add a new record for the mental state query `MentalStateDamage`:

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.domain;

public record MentalStateDamage(String mentalState,
                                Double damageToPlayers,
                                Double damageToStructures,
                                Double damageTaken) {
}
```

> Create the package `com.okta.developer.records.repository` and add `MentalStateStatsRepostory` interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the package `com.okta.developer.records.repository` and add a `MentalStateStatsRepostory` interface:
```

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.repository;

import com.okta.developer.records.domain.MentalStateDamage;
import reactor.core.publisher.Flux;

public interface MentalStateStatsRepository {

    Flux<MentalStateDamage> queryMentalStateAverageDamage();

}
```

> Add the implementation `MentalStateStatsRepostoryImpl` to retrieve the average damage in each category, for each mental state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the implementation `MentalStateStatsRepositoryImpl` to retrieve the average damage in each category, for each mental state:
```

I'm not a big fan of the `I` prefix for interfaces or the `Impl` suffix for classes. Maybe `DefaultMentalStateStatsRepository` would be better?

Author: totally, rename done in the post and in the code.

Author: I will revert this, I forgot it is a requirement from spring data to use the Impl suffix for custom repositories
https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/mongodb/docs/current/reference/html/#repositories.single-repository-behavior

Reviewer: Good to know!

Reviewer: Maybe we should link to these docs in the post so people don't question it like I did?

Author: Agree, I added a note.

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.repository;

import com.okta.developer.records.domain.EndOfGame;
import com.okta.developer.records.domain.MentalStateDamage;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.data.mongodb.core.ReactiveMongoTemplate;
import org.springframework.data.mongodb.core.aggregation.Aggregation;
import reactor.core.publisher.Flux;

import static org.springframework.data.mongodb.core.aggregation.Aggregation.*;

public class MentalStateStatsRepositoryImpl implements MentalStateStatsRepository {

> 

Reviewer: Remove unnecessary line break.

Author: Done

    private final ReactiveMongoTemplate mongoTemplate;

    @Autowired
    public MentalStateStatsRepositoryImpl(ReactiveMongoTemplate mongoTemplate) {
        this.mongoTemplate = mongoTemplate;
    }

    @Override
    public Flux<MentalStateDamage> queryMentalStateAverageDamage() {
        Aggregation aggregation = newAggregation(
                group("mentalState")
                        .first("mentalState").as("mentalState")
                        .avg("damageToPlayers").as("damageToPlayers")
                        .avg("damageTaken").as("damageTaken")
                        .avg("damageToStructures").as("damageToStructures"),
                project("mentalState", "damageToPlayers", "damageTaken", "damageToStructures")
                );
        return mongoTemplate.aggregate(aggregation, EndOfGame.class, MentalStateDamage.class);
    }

}
```

> Create the `SatsRepository` interface, extending the `MentalStateStatsRepository`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `StatsRepository` interface, extending the `MentalStateStatsRepository`:
```

```java
  package com.okta.developer.records.repository;

  import com.okta.developer.records.domain.EndOfGame;
  import org.springframework.data.repository.reactive.ReactiveSortingRepository;

  public interface StatsRepository extends ReactiveSortingRepository<EndOfGame, Long>, MentalStateStatsRepository {

  }
```

The sample dataset, after the import, will create strings for the date and time values, with a custom format. Create the following converters to map `String` to `LocalDate` and `LocalTime`:

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.repository;

import org.springframework.core.convert.converter.Converter;

import java.time.LocalDate;

> 

Reviewer: Remove blank lines.

Author: Done

public class LocalDateConverter implements Converter<String, LocalDate> {
    @Override
    public LocalDate convert(String s) {
        return LocalDate.parse(s);
    }
}
```
```java
package com.okta.developer.records.repository;

import org.springframework.core.convert.converter.Converter;

import java.time.LocalTime;

public class LocalTimeConverter implements Converter<String, LocalTime> {
    @Override
    public LocalTime convert(String s) {
        return LocalTime.parse(s);
    }
}
```

> Add the class `MongoConfiguration` in the package `com.okta.developer.records.configuration`, to register the converters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `MongoConfiguration` class in the package `com.okta.developer.records.configuration`, to register the converters:
```

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.configuration;

import com.okta.developer.records.repository.LocalDateConverter;
import com.okta.developer.records.repository.LocalTimeConverter;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Value;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.data.mongodb.config.AbstractReactiveMongoConfiguration;
import org.springframework.data.mongodb.core.convert.MongoCustomConversions;

@Configuration
public class MongoConfiguration extends AbstractReactiveMongoConfiguration {

    @Value("${spring.data.mongodb.database}")
    private String databaseName;

    @Override
    protected String getDatabaseName() {
        return databaseName;
    }

    @Override
    protected void configureConverters(MongoCustomConversions.MongoConverterConfigurationAdapter adapter) {
        adapter.registerConverter(new LocalDateConverter());
        adapter.registerConverter(new LocalTimeConverter());
    }
}
```

> Add the `StatsController` under the `com.okta.developer.records.controller` package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `StatsController` in the `com.okta.developer.records.controller` package:
```

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.controller;

import com.okta.developer.records.domain.EndOfGame;
import com.okta.developer.records.domain.MentalStateDamage;
import com.okta.developer.records.repository.StatsRepository;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import reactor.core.publisher.Flux;

@RestController
public class StatsController {

    @Autowired
    private StatsRepository statsRepository;

    @GetMapping("/endOfGame")
    public Flux<EndOfGame> getAllEndOfGame(){
        return statsRepository.findAll();
    }

    @GetMapping("/mentalStateAverageDamage")
    public Flux<MentalStateDamage> getMentalStateAverageDamage(){
        return statsRepository.queryMentalStateAverageDamage();
    }

}
```

The controller enables the `/endOfGame` endpoint to get all entries, and the `/mentalStateAverageDamage` endpoint, that returns the damage in each category, in an average by mental state.

> Download the test dataset from [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/java-records/blob/main/src/test/resources/stats.json), and copy it to `src/test/resouces/stats.json`.

Reviewer: If possible, please add an HTTPie command below to show how to do this. That way, it's easy to copy/paste when doing the tutorial.

Fun fact: I just learned HTTPie has an `https` command you can use so you don't have to specify `https://` for hosts.

Author: Done

> Download the test dataset from [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/java-records/blob/main/src/test/resources/stats.json), and copy it to `src/test/resouces/stats.json`.

Reviewer: TODO: change this repo to the one on oktadev after forking.

> Create the class `StatsControllerTest` in the package `com.okta.developer.records.controller` under the test folder, to verify the endpoints basic functionality with the help of Testcontainers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `StatsControllerTest` in the package `com.okta.developer.records.controller` under the `src/test` folder, to verify the endpoints basic functionality with the help of Testcontainers:
```

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.controller;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.AfterAll;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.BeforeAll;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.boot.test.autoconfigure.web.reactive.AutoConfigureWebTestClient;
import org.springframework.boot.test.context.SpringBootTest;
import org.springframework.test.web.reactive.server.WebTestClient;
import org.testcontainers.containers.Container;
import org.testcontainers.containers.MongoDBContainer;
import org.testcontainers.utility.DockerImageName;

> import org.testcontainers.utility.MountableFile;

Reviewer: I love the use of testcontainers!

    }

    @Test
    public void testGet_noAuth_returnsNotAuthorized(){

        webTestClient
                .get().uri("/endofgame")
                .exchange()
                .expectStatus().is3xxRedirection();
    }

    @Test
    public void testGet_withOidcLogin_returnsOk(){

        webTestClient.mutateWith(mockOidcLogin())
                .get().uri("/endOfGame")
                .exchange()
                .expectStatus().is2xxSuccessful()
                .expectBody()
                    .jsonPath("$.length()").isNumber()
                    .jsonPath("$.length()").isEqualTo("87")
                    .jsonPath("$[0].mentalState").isNotEmpty()
                    .jsonPath("$[0].damageTaken").isNumber()
                    .jsonPath("$[0].damageToPlayers").isNumber()
                    .jsonPath("$[0].damageToStructures").isNumber()
                    .jsonPath("$[0].date").isNotEmpty()
                    .jsonPath("$[0].timeOfDay").isNotEmpty()
                    .consumeWith(response -> logger.info(response.toString()));

    }

    @Test
    public void testGetMentalStateAverageDamage_withOidcLogin_returnsOk(){
        webTestClient

>                 .mutateWith(mockOidcLogin())

Reviewer: Nice touch! ❤️

                .get().uri("/mentalStateAverageDamage")
                .exchange()
                .expectStatus().is2xxSuccessful()
                .expectBody()
                .jsonPath("$.length()").isEqualTo("2")
                .consumeWith(response -> logger.info(response.toString()));
    }

    @AfterAll
    public static void tearDown(){
        mongoDBContainer.stop();
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: It might be good to add a note about how you're not using test slices because you're testing web and DB, then link to this post: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/07/12/spring-boot-test-slices

Author: I am inclined to add a service layer, and test the web and db slices. Working on that.

Author: Updated StatsControllerTest and added StatsRepositoryTest

      "damageToStructures":3373.511111111111,
      "damageTaken":246.46666666666667
   },
   {
      "mentalState":"high",
      "damageToPlayers":557.547619047619,
      "damageToStructures":2953.8571428571427,
      "damageTaken":241.71428571428572
   }
]
```
For this single-player dataset, the damage taken or inflicted was not orders of magnitude different when sober than when high.

# Java Records Advantages and Disadvantages

While Java Record is more concise for declaring data carrier classes, the "war on boilerplate" is a non-goal of the construct, neither is to add features like properties or annotation-driven code generation, like [Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/) does. Records semantics provide benefits when modeling an immutable state data type. No hidden state is allowed, as no instance fields can be defined outside the header, hence the transparent claim. Compiler generated `equals()` and `hashCode()` avoid error-prone coding. Serialization and deserialization into JSON are straightforward thanks to its canonical constructor.
If you need to be able to alter the state or to define a hierarchy, it is not possible with records.

> # Learn More

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Learn More About Java and Spring
```

I hope you enjoyed this tutorial and learned more about Java Record semantics, its benefits, and its limitations. Before choosing this feature, make sure to find out if your favorite frameworks provide support for it. Fortunately, at this moment Spring Boot support for Java Records was recently added in 2.5.x releases through Jackson 2.12.x. I was not able to find comments about records in Spring Data documentation. To continue learning about Java Records, Okta Security and Spring WebFlux check out the links below:

- [java.lang.Record](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Record.html)
- [Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)
- [R2DBC and Spring for Non-Blocking Database Access](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/05/12/spring-boot-r2dbc)
- [A Quick Guide to Spring Cloud Stream](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/04/15/spring-cloud-stream)
- [How to Use Client Credentials Flow with Spring Security](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/05/05/client-credentials-spring-security)

> You can find all the tutorial code in [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/java-records.git)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the completed code for this tutorial code on GitHub in the [oktadev/okta-java-records-example](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-records-example.git) repository.

If you liked this tutorial, chances are you like others we publish. Please follow [@oktadev on Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.
```

TODO: Fork repo after QA.

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Java Records: A WebFlux and Spring Data Example"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [java]
description: "Java Records support in Spring WebFlux Microservices and Spring Data MongoDB Access"
tags: [java-records, java, api, mongodb, rest, microservices]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-records-example
---

> When defining classes for a simple aggregation of values, developers had to write constructors, accessors, `equals()`, `hashCode()` and `toString()`, an error-prone ceremony that has low value and deviates the focus from modeling immutable data. With the motivation of simplifying the writing of data carrier classes, Java Records were introduced as a first preview in JDK 14. The second preview came in JDK 15 and the finalized feature came in JDK 16. A summary of the history is available in the [JDK Enhancement Proposal JEP 395](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/395).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining classes for a simple aggregation of values, Java developers have traditionally constructors, accessors, `equals()`, `hashCode()` and `toString()`, an error-prone ceremony that has low value and deviates the focus from modeling immutable data. With the motivation of simplifying the writing of data carrier classes, Java Records were introduced as a first preview in JDK 14. The second preview came in JDK 15 and the finalized feature came in JDK 16. A summary of the history is available in the [JDK Enhancement Proposal JEP 395](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/395).
```

While code generators can be used to reduce boilerplate code, the goals of the `record` proposals rather focus on its semantics. In this post let's explore Java Records features and advantages, and apply them for building a REST API and querying a Database.

{% img blog/java-records/openjdk-logo.png alt:"OpenJDK Logo" width:"300" %}{: .center-image }

**Prerequisites**:

- [HTTPie](https://httpie.io/)
- [Java 14+](https://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html)
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

# The `record` Keyword

The `record` is a new type of declaration, a restricted form of class that acts as a transparent carrier for immutable data. So let's start the exploration by defining a simple data type `EndOfGame` as a `record`:

```java
import java.time.LocalDate;
import java.time.LocalTime;

> public record EndOfGame(String id, LocalDate date,  LocalTime timeOfDay, String mentalState,

Reviewer: Can you put the arguments on 3 lines? If you look at the preview, you can't see everything and have to scroll to the right.

Author: Done

}
```
As you can see in the example above, the `record` has a name, `EndOfGame` in the example above. What looks like a constructor signature is the _state description_ or _header_ declaring the _components_ of the `record`.

The following members are acquired automatically with the declaration:

- A private final field and a public read accessor for each component of the state description
- A public _canonical_ constructor with the same signature as the state description, which initializes each field from the corresponding argument
- Implementation of `equals()`, `hashCode()` and `toString()`

The tests in the `EndOfGameTest` class below verify the automatic members are indeed available:

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.domain;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;

import java.time.LocalDate;
import java.time.LocalTime;

import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.assertEquals;
import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.assertTrue;

public class EndOfGameTest {

    private static final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(EndOfGameTest.class);

>     private EndOfGame getTestEndOfGame() {

Reviewer: I'd recommend taking "Test" out of this method name because it looks funny. `getEndOfGame()` or `createEndOfGame()` or simply `endOfGame()` might be better.

Author: Renamed to `createEndOfGame()`

# Using Java Record with Spring WebFlux and Spring Data

While searching for a dataset for this tutorial, I came across a collection of 87 end game statistics of a single player, for a popular game. As the author included the mental state in the data, I decided to use Java Records for building a basic average query and finding out if the performance was significantly different when sober than when high.

Let's jump ahead and build the a secured REST Api using the `EndOfGame` record, Spring Boot, [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/community) and Okta authentication. With the help of [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) create a WebFlux application, from the web UI or with [HTTPie](https://httpie.io/):

```shell

> https -d start.spring.io/starter.zip type==maven-project \
>   language==java \
>   bootVersion==2.5.5 \
>   baseDir==java-records \
>   groupId==com.okta.developer.records \
>   artifactId==records-demo \
>   name==java-records \
>   packageName==com.okta.developer.records \
>   javaVersion==17 \
>   dependencies==webflux,okta,data-mongodb-reactive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https -d start.spring.io/starter.zip bootVersion==2.5.6 \
  baseDir==java-records \
  groupId==com.okta.developer.records \
  artifactId==records-demo \
  name==java-records \
  packageName==com.okta.developer.records \
  javaVersion==17 \
  dependencies==webflux,okta,data-mongodb-reactive
```
No need to specify the defaults. I upgraded when I QA'd, so will use it in my PR.

```

**Note**: Although Java Records are available since release 14, the Spring Initializr Web UI only allows to select Java Long Term Support (LTS) releases.

> Extract the Maven project, and edit `pom.xml` to add two more required dependencies for this tutorial, [MongoDB Testcontainers Module](https://www.testcontainers.org/modules/databases/mongodb/) for testing database access and `spring-security-test`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extract the Maven project, and edit `pom.xml` to add two more required dependencies for this tutorial, [MongoDB Testcontainers Module](https://www.testcontainers.org/modules/databases/mongodb/) for testing database access, and `spring-security-test`:
```

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.testcontainers</groupId>
    <artifactId>mongodb</artifactId>
    <version>1.15.3</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.security</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-security-test</artifactId>
    <version>5.5.1</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

{% include setup/cli.md type="web" framework="Okta Spring Boot Starter" %}

Rename `application.properties` to `application.yml`, and add the following content:

```yml
okta:
  oauth2:
    issuer: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default

>     client-secret: {clientSecret}
>     client-id: {clientId}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    client-id: {clientId}
    client-secret: {clientSecret}
```

Because I pasted the values in the wrong order. 😄

spring:
  data:
    mongodb:
      port: 27017
      database: fortnite

logging:
  level:
    org.springframework.data.mongodb: TRACE
```

> Add the `EndOfGame` record under the package `com.okta.developer.records.domain`. Annotate the `record` with `@Document(collection = "stats")` to let MongoDB map `EndOfGame` to the `stats` collection. As you can see, a record class can be annotated. The class should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an `EndOfGame` record under the package `com.okta.developer.records.domain`. Annotate the `record` with `@Document(collection = "stats")` to let MongoDB map `EndOfGame` to the `stats` collection. As you can see, a record class can be annotated. The class should look like this:
```

        return statsRepository.findAll();
    }
}
```

Add a `StatsController` class in the `com.okta.developer.records.controller` package:

```java
package com.okta.developer.records.controller;

import com.okta.developer.records.domain.EndOfGame;
import com.okta.developer.records.domain.MentalStateDamage;
import com.okta.developer.records.service.StatsService;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import reactor.core.publisher.Flux;

@RestController
public class StatsController {

    @Autowired
    private StatsService statsService;

    @GetMapping("/endOfGame")
    public Flux<EndOfGame> getAllEndOfGame(){
        return statsService.getAll();
    }

    @GetMapping("/mentalStateAverageDamage")
    public Flux<MentalStateDamage> getMentalStateAverageDamage(){
        return statsService.queryMentalStateAverageDamage();
    }

}
```

The controller enables the `/endOfGame` endpoint to get all entries, and the `/mentalStateAverageDamage` endpoint, that returns the damage in each category, in an average by mental state.

> Download the test dataset from [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/java-records/blob/main/src/test/resources/stats.json) with HTTPie, and copy it to `src/test/resouces/stats.json`:

Reviewer: todo (for me): change repo name after forking

> Download the test dataset from [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/java-records/blob/main/src/test/resources/stats.json) with HTTPie, and copy it to `src/test/resouces/stats.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the test dataset from [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-records-example/blob/main/src/test/resources/stats.json) with HTTPie, and copy it to `src/test/resources/stats.json`:
```

```shell

> https -d raw.githubusercontent.com/indiepopart/java-records/9a60f81349cdffebbe001719256b0883493f987d/src/test/resources/stats.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https -d raw.githubusercontent.com/oktadev/okta-java-records-example/9a60f81349cdffebbe001719256b0883493f987d/src/test/resources/stats.json
mkdir src/test/resources
mv stats.json src/test/resources/.
```

```

> Create the `StatsControllerTest` class in the package `com.okta.developer.records.controller` under the `src/test` folder, to verify the endpoints basic functionality with a web test. In this test, only the web slice is verified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `StatsControllerTest` class in the package `com.okta.developer.records.controller` under the `src/test` folder, to verify the endpoints basic functionality with a web test. In this test, only the web slice is verified:
```

    }

    @AfterAll
    public static void tearDown(){
        mongoDBContainer.stop();
    }

}
```

`@DataMongoTest` configures the data layer for testing. For this test, I was not able to configure a [repository populator](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/mongodb/docs/current/reference/html/#core.repository-populators), so with the help of Testcontainers a MongoDB instance is started instead. Using a container MongoDB instance requires disabling the `EmbeddedMongoAutoConfiguration`.

In the `setUp()` above, the `mongoimport` tool is executed in the test container, initializing the `stats` collection with the sample dataset. If the import runs successfully, the following line should appear in the test logs:

```text
87 document(s) imported successfully. 0 document(s) failed to import.
```
Also, you can inspect the response in the logs for the average damage test:

```
MentalStateDamage[mentalState=sober, damageToPlayers=604.3777777777777, damageToStructures=3373.511111111111, damageTaken=246.46666666666667]
MentalStateDamage[mentalState=high, damageToPlayers=557.547619047619, damageToStructures=2953.8571428571427, damageTaken=241.71428571428572]
```

> For this single-player dataset, the damage taken or inflicted was not orders of magnitude different when sober than when high.

Reviewer: I love the tests in this section! ❤️ 

Why weren't you able to configure a repository populator? You could just put a positive spin on it and say something like:

> For this test, I decided not to configure a [repository populator]() and used Testcontainers instead.

Reviewer: You never mention how to run the tests to see the output. I'd add a sentence that says run `mvn test` or `mvn test -Dtestname`, or tell them to run the test from their IDE.

Author: I changed the comment about not using repository populator. I also added the mvn test command.

# Java Records Advantages and Disadvantages

While Java Record is more concise for declaring data carrier classes, the "war on boilerplate" is a non-goal of the construct, neither is to add features like properties or annotation-driven code generation, like [Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/) does. Records semantics provide benefits when modeling an immutable state data type. No hidden state is allowed, as no instance fields can be defined outside the header, hence the transparent claim. Compiler generated `equals()` and `hashCode()` avoid error-prone coding. Serialization and deserialization into JSON are straightforward thanks to its canonical constructor.
If you need to be able to alter the state or to define a hierarchy, it is not possible with records.

> 

Reviewer: Are these meant to be two paragraphs or one?

Author: I updated the section, using bullets for advantages and limitations.

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Java Records: A WebFlux and Spring Data Example"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [java]

> description: "Java Records support in Spring WebFlux Microservices and Spring Data MongoDB Access"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Want to use Java's new records? Check out this showcase of Java Records support in Spring WebFlux and Spring Data MongoDB."
```

MentalStateDamage[mentalState=high, damageToPlayers=557.547619047619, damageToStructures=2953.8571428571427, damageTaken=241.71428571428572]
```
For this single-player dataset, the damage taken or inflicted was not orders of magnitude different when sober than when high.

## Run the Application

Create a `docker` folder in the root of the project, and add the following `docker-compose.yml` file there:

```yml
version: "3.1"

services:
  mongodb:
    image: mongo:bionic
    environment:
      - MONGO_INIT_DATABASE=fortnite
    ports:
      - "27017:27017"
    volumes:
      - ../src/test/resources/stats.json:/seed/stats.json
      - ./initdb.sh:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/initdb.sh
  demo:
    image: records-demo:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
    environment:
      - SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_HOST=mongodb
    depends_on:
      - mongodb
```

Add also the `initdb.sh` script in the `docker` folder, to import the test data into MongoDB, with the following content:

```shell
mongoimport --verbose --db=fortnite --collection=stats --file=/seed/stats.json --jsonArray
```

> In the project root, generate the application container image with the following maven command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the project root, generate the application container image with the following Maven command:
```

```shell
./mvnw spring-boot:build-image
```

> Run the application with docker-compose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the application with Docker Compose:
```

```shell
cd docker
docker-compose up
```

> Once the services are up, go to http://localhost:8080/mentalStateAverageDamage, and you should see the Okta login page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the services are up, go to `http://localhost:8080/mentalStateAverageDamage`, and you should see the Okta login page:
```
